README.md, before:


# [Selenium](https://selenium-python.readthedocs.io/api.html)
Getting started with Testing and Automating using Selenium.

- Automates browsers *(As if a real user is operating the browser)*
- Test web apps
- Scrape data from websites
- Online bots

---

### **Installation**

- Pretty straight forward
    
    `pip install selenium`
    

---

### **Webdriver**

- Drives a browser natively (Programming interface)
- Implementation of a browser controlling code.

💡 **Selenium provides a dedicated webdriver for each browser**

⚠️ **We need to download a driver executable that’s compatible with the existing browser version**

- After downloading the right browser driver we can either
    - add it’s path to PATH env variable
        - Eg: `os.environ['PATH'] += ['path/to/driver/executable']`
    - Or
        
        ```python
        from selenium import webdriver
        
        # Create chrome service
        chrome_service = webdriver.ChromeService('/path/to/browser/driver')
        
        # pass service to the driver
        driver = webdriver.Chrome(service=chrome_service)
        ```
        

---

### Waits - Implicit & Explicit

### Implicit
- `driver.implicitly_wait(time_in_seconds)`
- This tells driver that if it can't find the element, wait that specified `time_in_seconds` before raising an error.
- Implicit wait is set for the life of the WebDriver object

### Explicit
- Tells the driver to wait for a certain condition before proceeding further in the code
```python 
from selenium import webdriver
from selenium.webdriver.common.by import By
from selenium.webdriver.support.wait import WebDriverWait
from selenium.webdriver.support import expected_conditions as EC


# This will wait maximum 10 seconds.
element = WebDriverWait(driver, 10).until(
    EC.presence_of_element_located((By.ID, "myDynamicElement"))
)

```
💡 **By default, WebDriverWait calls the ExpectedCondition every 500 milliseconds until it returns success**

---
### Locating elements
- We have 2 methods
    - Both methods take 2 arguments for example: 
            - `driver.find_element(By.CLASS_NAME, 'class_name')`
            - `driver.find_elements(By.NAME, 'element_name')`
            - `driver.find_element(By.ID, 'element_id')`
    ---
    1. **`driver.find_element(By, value)`**
        - This finds the first element that matches the look up criteria.
        - Return WebElement instance.

    2. **`driver.find_elements(By, value)`**
        - This finds all elements that matches the look up criteria.
        - Return List of WebElement instances.

    - `By` class options:
        - `find_element(By.ID, "id")`
        - `find_element(By.NAME, "name")`
        - `find_element(By.XPATH, "xpath")`
        - `find_element(By.LINK_TEXT, "link text")`
        - `find_element(By.PARTIAL_LINK_TEXT, "partial link text")`
        - `find_element(By.TAG_NAME, "tag name")`
        - `find_element(By.CLASS_NAME, "class name")`
        - `find_element(By.CSS_SELECTOR, "css selector")`
---

### WebElement 
```python
    from selenium.webdriver.common.keys import Keys


    element: WebElement = driver.find_element(By.ID, 'my_element')

    # Actions we can perform on Web elements.
    
    element.clear()  # Empty input field.
    
    element.text  # returns content of an element.

    element.get_attribute('attr name')  # returns value of an HTML attribute.

    element.sendKeys('test')  # write text on a field.

    element.sendKeys(Keys.RETURN)  # can take specific keyboard keys from `Keys` class.

    element.sendKeys('test' + Keys.RETURN)  # we can concatenate keys to a string.

    element.click()  # click on it if it's clickable.

    element.submit()  # if it's a form element.

    element.parent  # Return reference to the driver instance this element was found from.
    
    element.tag_name  # Return tag name of an element 
    
    element.id  # Return internal ID used by selenium.

```
---

Commit message:

docs: add locators best practice tip

README.md, after:


# [Selenium](https://selenium-python.readthedocs.io/api.html)
Getting started with Testing and Automating using Selenium.

- Automates browsers *(As if a real user is operating the browser)*
- Test web apps
- Scrape data from websites
- Online bots

---

### **Installation**

- Pretty straight forward
    
    `pip install selenium`
    

---

### **Webdriver**

- Drives a browser natively (Programming interface)
- Implementation of a browser controlling code.

💡 **Selenium provides a dedicated webdriver for each browser**

⚠️ **We need to download a driver executable that’s compatible with the existing browser version**

- After downloading the right browser driver we can either
    - add it’s path to PATH env variable
        - Eg: `os.environ['PATH'] += ['path/to/driver/executable']`
    - Or
        
        ```python
        from selenium import webdriver
        
        # Create chrome service
        chrome_service = webdriver.ChromeService('/path/to/browser/driver')
        
        # pass service to the driver
        driver = webdriver.Chrome(service=chrome_service)
        ```
        

---

### Waits - Implicit & Explicit

### Implicit
- `driver.implicitly_wait(time_in_seconds)`
- This tells driver that if it can't find the element, wait that specified `time_in_seconds` before raising an error.
- Implicit wait is set for the life of the WebDriver object

### Explicit
- Tells the driver to wait for a certain condition before proceeding further in the code
```python 
from selenium import webdriver
from selenium.webdriver.common.by import By
from selenium.webdriver.support.wait import WebDriverWait
from selenium.webdriver.support import expected_conditions as EC


# This will wait maximum 10 seconds.
element = WebDriverWait(driver, 10).until(
    EC.presence_of_element_located((By.ID, "myDynamicElement"))
)

```
💡 **By default, WebDriverWait calls the ExpectedCondition every 500 milliseconds until it returns success**

---
### Locating elements
- We have 2 methods
    - Both methods take 2 arguments for example: 
            - `driver.find_element(By.CLASS_NAME, 'class_name')`
            - `driver.find_elements(By.NAME, 'element_name')`
            - `driver.find_element(By.ID, 'element_id')`
    ---
    1. **`driver.find_element(By, value)`**
        - This finds the first element that matches the look up criteria.
        - Return WebElement instance.

    2. **`driver.find_elements(By, value)`**
        - This finds all elements that matches the look up criteria.
        - Return List of WebElement instances.

    - `By` class options:
        - `find_element(By.ID, "id")`
        - `find_element(By.NAME, "name")`
        - `find_element(By.XPATH, "xpath")`
        - `find_element(By.LINK_TEXT, "link text")`
        - `find_element(By.PARTIAL_LINK_TEXT, "partial link text")`
        - `find_element(By.TAG_NAME, "tag name")`
        - `find_element(By.CLASS_NAME, "class name")`
        - `find_element(By.CSS_SELECTOR, "css selector")`

    ---
    - **💡 Locators Tip**
        - It's recommended to separate the locator strings from the place where they are getting used.
        - Locators of the same page belong to the same class.
    ```python
        #The locators.py will look like this:
        
        from selenium.webdriver.common.by import By

        class MainPageLocators(object):
            """A class for main page locators. All main page locators should come here"""

            GO_BUTTON = (By.ID, 'submit')

    ```
---

### WebElement 
```python
    from selenium.webdriver.common.keys import Keys


    element: WebElement = driver.find_element(By.ID, 'my_element')

    # Actions we can perform on Web elements.
    
    element.clear()  # Empty input field.
    
    element.text  # returns content of an element.

    element.get_attribute('attr name')  # returns value of an HTML attribute.

    element.sendKeys('test')  # write text on a field.

    element.sendKeys(Keys.RETURN)  # can take specific keyboard keys from `Keys` class.

    element.sendKeys('test' + Keys.RETURN)  # we can concatenate keys to a string.

    element.click()  # click on it if it's clickable.

    element.submit()  # if it's a form element.

    element.parent  # Return reference to the driver instance this element was found from.
    
    element.tag_name  # Return tag name of an element 
    
    element.id  # Return internal ID used by selenium.

```
---
